# Runner's knee
## Utterances
Speaker A: Runner's Knee Runner's knee is a condition characterized by pain behind or around the kneecap. It is caused by overuse, muscle imbalance and inadequate stretching. Symptoms include pain under or around the kneecap, pain when walking sprained ankle 1 nil here in the 37th minute she is between two Guatemalan defenders and then goes down and stays down and you will see why. The ligaments of the ankle holds the ankle bones and joint in position. They protect the ankle from abnormal movements such as twisting, turning and rolling of the foot. A sprained ankle happens when the foot twists, rolls or turns beyond its normal motions. If the force is too strong, the ligaments can tear. Symptoms include pain and difficulty moving the ankle, swelling around the ankle and bruising. Meniscus tear and I think some of it was just being scared, but this guy, he act like he want to go after Patrick each of your knees has two menisci c shaped pieces of cartilage that act like a cushion between your shin bone and your thigh bone. A meniscus tear happens when you forcibly twist or rotate your knee, especially when putting the pressure of your full weight on it, leading to a torn meniscus. Symptoms include stiffness and swelling, pain in your knee, catching or locking of your knee. Rotator Cuff TEAR Cuff Kobe Traveling to Los Angeles today to be examined by team doctors on the rotator cuff attaches the humerus to the shoulder blade and helps to lift and rotate your arm. A rotator cuff tear is caused by a fall onto your arm or if you lift a heavy object too fast, the tendon can partially or completely tear off of the humerus. Head Symptoms include pain when lifting and lowering your arm, weakness when lifting or rotating your arm, pain when lying on the affected shoulder. ACL tear here's Rosario on the break now and watch Nerlens go up with a left hand, block the shot and then on landing, there came the the ACL runs diagonally in the middle of the knee and provides stability. Anterior cruciate ligament tear occurs when your foot is firmly planted on the ground and a sudden force hits your knee while your leg is straight or slightly bent. This can happen when you are changing direction, rapidly slowing down. When running or landing from a jump, the ligament completely tears into two pieces, making the knee unstable. Symptoms include severe pain and tenderness in knee, loss of full range of motion, swelling around the knee.

# Call Center
## Transcript
Hello. Hello. Hi, my name is Sarah Greissel. I'm from Kansas. Hi, I'm Shelly here. I'm from San Jose. How are you doing? I'm good. This is my first time doing this. Okay. Welcome. Oh, thanks. So would you like to speak first? Well, I guess I could. The question was if we were offered a million dollars, if we would. The only thing is we wouldn't talk to our best friend again. Oh, that would be a tough one. You know, I'd love to have the money. I could think of all the things I could spend it on, but I think I would be lost without my best friend, not being able to talk to him. You know, help celebrating. Like, if you get a new job or anything, they're always there for you. Or if you're sad, you know, you can always talk to them. What do you feel about the subject? I feel the same way because, I mean, no, money is very important, definitely. And a million dollars is a dream come true for me. I mean, I can actually imagine. I mean, the kind of things I can buy and travel and do whatever I want to in life. But then again, I just can't. I mean, stop talking to my best friend. That's like, I can't do that. I mean, I've been so close to her. She has been my friend since my school days. So I share almost everything with her. Whatever problems, whatever successes that I faced in life, everything I have to share with her. And they know so much about you and everything. I mean, any little problem, any little thing that you have in your life, you can always go and talk to her about it. Really nice, it really feels nice. You know, you can share your burdens with her, your joys with her, your sorrows with her that way. So seriously, money is definitely important, but. That, I don't think it's that important. Right. I mean, not to sacrifice the friendship for it. Right. You can't do that. Does your best friend, does she live close by? She's actually in Indian. I'm from India, came here last year, so we are still in touch through mail. I call her on and off once in a while, but, you know, anything that I want to discuss, I always. Since the Internet facility is so rampant now, so I can kind of mail to her and ask her for her suggestions because she's always been, you know, she always has something to tell me if there is anything that I feel that I need to discuss with her. She's always there for me. She always stands by me. Yeah, there's just having a Best friend, it's just having someone that you can always count on, you know, you can just tell them anything. And like she has been with me since we were in standard sixth, so it's been, I guess about almost 20 years now. Oh, my goodness. Yeah. But you email back and forth then. Yeah, yeah, very regularly. And she's going to have a baby very soon, so I'm very excited about that. Oh, wow. Is this the first one? Yeah. Oh, my goodness. What about your best friend? She lives. Actually we just got out of college and I lived with her in college and then she is going to be going. She only lives about nine miles from me. Oh, that's really nice. Yes, it is nice. And I get to talk to her on the phone and we email jokes back and forth. Right. Yeah. I feel for you not being able to see her. When was the last time you saw your best friend? That was before I got married. That was last year. Oh. And I really miss her sometimes. You know, sometimes we feel like, you know, talking on a one, on one basis, you have to be facing the other person also. I mean, that is not possible right now. But still we are very close otherwise. Exactly. It would be hard to be like just talk over the email. It's a lot. Sometimes you really want to have the person physically in front of you. Right, Exactly. You just need them to be there. So next time when I plan to go to India, I definitely would meet her. When is your. Do you have any plans to go? That's probably by the end of this year. Let's see. There's nothing definite as yet, but probably. Keeping your fingers crossed, maybe that'll happen. Oh, good. You're very lucky you have a friend so close by and I mean. Yes, I am. I actually have a couple friends I consider my best friends. And it's nice. Okay. I'm always there for them. And like right now I'm looking for a job, so I'm always keeping them. I'm always like, oh, telling all my sorrows. Or I'm like, I haven't heard anything yet. And they're always just reassuring. I'm sure you'll hear something, don't worry. And just very comforting. I know. I seriously understand. I mean, there have been a couple of episodes in my life in the past where I've been really hurt badly and my friend was always there to stand by me. I mean, she kind of consoled me and supported me during those hard times, which was. I mean, I really look upon her. I really respect her for that. And I Appreciate what she's done for me. So no way money can be substituted for her. No way. Definitely not. I mean, and I kind of laugh. I'm like, who would give you a million dollars and ask you this? That's understandable. Yeah. So who's your other close friend? My other close friend. I've known her from like since I was like seven or eight. We were in 4H together. I don't know if you know what 4H is, but just kind of a club that you get together in when you're kids and you do little projects like you take care of stuff. And so I known her from that. We kind of grew up together. And right now she's going to be graduating with her master's degree from. They say on Friday and I have to work. It's my last day with them. I teach preschool, so. Okay, that's nice. Yeah. It's my last day with kids before summer, so I wish I could be there for her and I'm so excited for her. But. Yeah, I feel like I'm kind of letting her down, you know, But I know she. She's not too worried about it, but I wish I was there. Okay. The same thing happened with me when I was getting married. My friend couldn't attend it because she had one of her medical exams to appear for. It was one of very. It was a very important exam. So obviously there was no way she could make it. But she was so apologetic and like we spoke over the phone and she was like, oh, I really want to attend your wedding. It's always been my dream to see you married and stuff like that. But obviously, I mean, there's no way she could attend it. Oh no, that was really bad. I felt really bad because I wanted her to be close to me, you know, that was the most important day in my life. Exactly. You want to be surrounded by the people you love. Yeah, I know. But unfortunately she couldn't make it. But then you can't do anything about that. No. So did you get married just a year ago? Yeah, just a year back. Oh, wow. Okay. I got married back in July. Okay. That was last year. That's great. Yeah. So I didn't. Did you meet your husband over here? Does your best friend know him? Has he ever met your best friend? They've just like spoken over the phone. That's it. They've not met face to face. Uh huh. Because he was here in the US and I was in India. So we just came down for the marriage and well, she couldn't Attend a marriage. So they couldn't. They never got over the phone. And I'm glad they liked each other at least. Yeah, really. Have you ever thought about having her come over here and visit? Probably. Let's see, she has plans of coming down to Canada sometime in the near future, so probably if she pays a visit to Canada that I'll definitely call her here as well, if that's possible. Wow. And now since she's so far away from me, I mean, I realize her importance in my life even more now because you know, there are some times when I really, really, really feel like dying. I'm dying to speak to her, but it's not possible. How expensive is it to call her? It is about, I guess about 50 cents a minute or something like that to India, but it depends on different cities in India. So the Capital is about 50 cent. Other cities is more expensive. So it's not always. Well if I had a million dollars then I would have called her up every day. But that would have been nice, wouldn't it? Oh, I didn't know how much it would cost her. Oh goodness. That's the disadvantage of, you know, coming to another country and something like that. But well that's life I guess. Yeah. Is she going to be a doctor, is that what you said? Yeah, yeah, she already is a doctor now she's doing her specialty in dermatology. Oh wow. And very soon she's going to have a baby as well, so. Oh that is so. I so much wanted to see her child. But that's. I guess when I visit India then only it's going to be possible. Really. I have to do with the photographs. I think now does she have a digital camera or something you could take pictures and send it over the email? Yeah, I did that. Oh, you already have, huh? Oh well that was good. You have at least a couple sources of ways to get in contact with her. Right? Thankfully the net thing is there now. Otherwise it's like, you know, at least you can mail to each other every day. Not so expensive in India. Also out here it's very reasonable. So mailing is a very good thing I believe, even though I can't call her so often. But uh huh. How much does it cost to mail a letter? Like I know a stamp is like 30 cents. Email is I guess free. It's just the monthly cost of the Internet and I don't write those snail mails because I'm not in the habit of writing now. Oh, okay. I didn't know if you did that. But yeah, she has a computer at her place, so we exchange mails practically every day. Oh, that's great. You have contact that way? Yeah. That's great. So what about you? You get like. You see each other almost every day? Yeah, we usually probably see each other once a week. And it's nice she only lives about nine miles out, and she got married last summer also, so we kind of have things in common. You. Right? I feel sorry for her because her husband, he did a lot. He.

## Utterances
Speaker A: Hello.,Speaker B: Hello.,Speaker A: Hi, my name is Sarah Greissel. I'm from Kansas.,Speaker B: Hi, I'm Shelly here. I'm from San Jose. How are you doing?,Speaker A: I'm good. This is my first time doing this.,Speaker B: Okay. Welcome.,Speaker A: Oh, thanks.,Speaker B: So would you like to speak first?,Speaker A: Well, I guess I could. The question was if we were offered a million dollars, if we would. The only thing is we wouldn't talk to our best friend again. Oh, that would be a tough one. You know, I'd love to have the money. I could think of all the things I could spend it on, but I think I would be lost without my best friend, not being able to talk to him. You know, help celebrating. Like, if you get a new job or anything, they're always there for you. Or if you're sad, you know, you can always talk to them. What do you feel about the subject?,Speaker B: I feel the same way because, I mean, no, money is very important, definitely. And a million dollars is a dream come true for me. I mean, I can actually imagine. I mean, the kind of things I can buy and travel and do whatever I want to in life. But then again, I just can't. I mean, stop talking to my best friend. That's like, I can't do that. I mean, I've been so close to her. She has been my friend since my school days. So I share almost everything with her. Whatever problems, whatever successes that I faced in life, everything I have to share with her.,Speaker A: And they know so much about you and everything.,Speaker B: I mean, any little problem, any little thing that you have in your life, you can always go and talk to her about it. Really nice, it really feels nice. You know, you can share your burdens with her, your joys with her, your sorrows with her that way. So seriously, money is definitely important, but.,Speaker A: That, I don't think it's that important. Right.,Speaker B: I mean, not to sacrifice the friendship for it. Right. You can't do that.,Speaker A: Does your best friend, does she live close by?,Speaker B: She's actually in Indian. I'm from India, came here last year, so we are still in touch through mail. I call her on and off once in a while, but, you know, anything that I want to discuss, I always. Since the Internet facility is so rampant now, so I can kind of mail to her and ask her for her suggestions because she's always been, you know, she always has something to tell me if there is anything that I feel that I need to discuss with her. She's always there for me. She always stands by me.,Speaker A: Yeah, there's just having a Best friend, it's just having someone that you can always count on, you know, you can just tell them anything.,Speaker B: And like she has been with me since we were in standard sixth, so it's been, I guess about almost 20 years now.,Speaker A: Oh, my goodness. Yeah. But you email back and forth then.,Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, very regularly. And she's going to have a baby very soon, so I'm very excited about that.,Speaker A: Oh, wow. Is this the first one?,Speaker B: Yeah.,Speaker A: Oh, my goodness.,Speaker B: What about your best friend?,Speaker A: She lives. Actually we just got out of college and I lived with her in college and then she is going to be going. She only lives about nine miles from me.,Speaker B: Oh, that's really nice.,Speaker A: Yes, it is nice. And I get to talk to her on the phone and we email jokes back and forth.,Speaker B: Right.,Speaker A: Yeah. I feel for you not being able to see her. When was the last time you saw your best friend?,Speaker B: That was before I got married. That was last year.,Speaker A: Oh.,Speaker B: And I really miss her sometimes. You know, sometimes we feel like, you know, talking on a one, on one basis, you have to be facing the other person also. I mean, that is not possible right now. But still we are very close otherwise.,Speaker A: Exactly. It would be hard to be like just talk over the email. It's a lot.,Speaker B: Sometimes you really want to have the person physically in front of you.,Speaker A: Right, Exactly. You just need them to be there.,Speaker B: So next time when I plan to go to India, I definitely would meet her.,Speaker A: When is your. Do you have any plans to go?,Speaker B: That's probably by the end of this year. Let's see. There's nothing definite as yet, but probably.,Speaker A: Keeping your fingers crossed, maybe that'll happen. Oh, good.,Speaker B: You're very lucky you have a friend so close by and I mean.,Speaker A: Yes, I am. I actually have a couple friends I consider my best friends. And it's nice.,Speaker B: Okay.,Speaker A: I'm always there for them. And like right now I'm looking for a job, so I'm always keeping them. I'm always like, oh, telling all my sorrows. Or I'm like, I haven't heard anything yet. And they're always just reassuring. I'm sure you'll hear something, don't worry. And just very comforting.,Speaker B: I know. I seriously understand. I mean, there have been a couple of episodes in my life in the past where I've been really hurt badly and my friend was always there to stand by me. I mean, she kind of consoled me and supported me during those hard times, which was. I mean, I really look upon her. I really respect her for that. And I Appreciate what she's done for me. So no way money can be substituted for her. No way.,Speaker A: Definitely not. I mean, and I kind of laugh. I'm like, who would give you a million dollars and ask you this?,Speaker B: That's understandable.,Speaker A: Yeah.,Speaker B: So who's your other close friend?,Speaker A: My other close friend. I've known her from like since I was like seven or eight. We were in 4H together. I don't know if you know what 4H is, but just kind of a club that you get together in when you're kids and you do little projects like you take care of stuff. And so I known her from that. We kind of grew up together. And right now she's going to be graduating with her master's degree from. They say on Friday and I have to work. It's my last day with them. I teach preschool, so.,Speaker B: Okay, that's nice.,Speaker A: Yeah. It's my last day with kids before summer, so I wish I could be there for her and I'm so excited for her. But. Yeah, I feel like I'm kind of letting her down, you know, But I know she. She's not too worried about it, but I wish I was there.,Speaker B: Okay. The same thing happened with me when I was getting married. My friend couldn't attend it because she had one of her medical exams to appear for. It was one of very. It was a very important exam. So obviously there was no way she could make it. But she was so apologetic and like we spoke over the phone and she was like, oh, I really want to attend your wedding. It's always been my dream to see you married and stuff like that. But obviously, I mean, there's no way she could attend it. Oh no, that was really bad. I felt really bad because I wanted her to be close to me, you know, that was the most important day in my life.,Speaker A: Exactly. You want to be surrounded by the people you love.,Speaker B: Yeah, I know. But unfortunately she couldn't make it. But then you can't do anything about that.,Speaker A: No. So did you get married just a year ago?,Speaker B: Yeah, just a year back.,Speaker A: Oh, wow. Okay. I got married back in July.,Speaker B: Okay. That was last year. That's great.,Speaker A: Yeah. So I didn't. Did you meet your husband over here? Does your best friend know him? Has he ever met your best friend?,Speaker B: They've just like spoken over the phone. That's it. They've not met face to face.,Speaker A: Uh huh.,Speaker B: Because he was here in the US and I was in India. So we just came down for the marriage and well, she couldn't Attend a marriage. So they couldn't. They never got over the phone. And I'm glad they liked each other at least.,Speaker A: Yeah, really. Have you ever thought about having her come over here and visit?,Speaker B: Probably. Let's see, she has plans of coming down to Canada sometime in the near future, so probably if she pays a visit to Canada that I'll definitely call her here as well, if that's possible.,Speaker A: Wow.,Speaker B: And now since she's so far away from me, I mean, I realize her importance in my life even more now because you know, there are some times when I really, really, really feel like dying. I'm dying to speak to her, but it's not possible.,Speaker A: How expensive is it to call her?,Speaker B: It is about, I guess about 50 cents a minute or something like that to India, but it depends on different cities in India. So the Capital is about 50 cent. Other cities is more expensive. So it's not always. Well if I had a million dollars then I would have called her up every day.,Speaker A: But that would have been nice, wouldn't it? Oh, I didn't know how much it would cost her. Oh goodness.,Speaker B: That's the disadvantage of, you know, coming to another country and something like that. But well that's life I guess.,Speaker A: Yeah. Is she going to be a doctor, is that what you said?,Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, she already is a doctor now she's doing her specialty in dermatology.,Speaker A: Oh wow.,Speaker B: And very soon she's going to have a baby as well, so.,Speaker A: Oh that is so.,Speaker B: I so much wanted to see her child. But that's. I guess when I visit India then only it's going to be possible.,Speaker A: Really.,Speaker B: I have to do with the photographs.,Speaker A: I think now does she have a digital camera or something you could take pictures and send it over the email?,Speaker B: Yeah, I did that.,Speaker A: Oh, you already have, huh? Oh well that was good. You have at least a couple sources of ways to get in contact with her.,Speaker B: Right? Thankfully the net thing is there now. Otherwise it's like, you know, at least you can mail to each other every day. Not so expensive in India. Also out here it's very reasonable. So mailing is a very good thing I believe, even though I can't call her so often.,Speaker A: But uh huh. How much does it cost to mail a letter? Like I know a stamp is like 30 cents.,Speaker B: Email is I guess free. It's just the monthly cost of the Internet and I don't write those snail mails because I'm not in the habit of writing now.,Speaker A: Oh, okay. I didn't know if you did that.,Speaker B: But yeah, she has a computer at her place, so we exchange mails practically every day.,Speaker A: Oh, that's great. You have contact that way?,Speaker B: Yeah. That's great. So what about you? You get like. You see each other almost every day?,Speaker A: Yeah, we usually probably see each other once a week. And it's nice she only lives about nine miles out, and she got married last summer also, so we kind of have things in common. You.,Speaker B: Right?,Speaker A: I feel sorry for her because her husband, he did a lot. He.

## Chapters
Chapter 0.48-17.82: Sarah Greissel is from Kansas. Hello. How are you doing,Chapter 18.40-276.87: If we were offered a million dollars, would we stop talking to our best friend,Chapter 276.98-518.54: Your best friend couldn't attend your wedding because she had medical exams,Chapter 518.84-599.84: You have at least a couple sources of ways to get in contact with her

# Talk CPR
## Transcript
Afternoon, Kat. Nice to see you. Nice to catch up again. How are you? I'm good, thank you. How are you? Not too bad, not too. Not too bad. I'm in my office in Willindra Cancer Hospital, as you, as you can see. Very nice. And good to see you at home as well. The new world of outpatient appointments via by a video link, isn't it? Indeed, yes. So good, good to catch up with you. And I think last time we saw each other face to face and I think the focus was a bit sort of your sort of pain management. I think today the focus was going to be I was going to talk a little bit about, you know, discussing future treatments as such, if that is okay with you. Yeah, sounds good. Do you mind just for the purpose of the consultation, do you mind just quickly summarizing where things are at at the moment? Would that be okay? Yeah, no, that's fine. So I'm kat. I am 39, I think about that then. I'm 39 and I have stage four breast cancer. I was first diagnosed nine years ago and had a whole lot of treatment then. And then four years ago received my secondary diagnosis where the breast cancer has since spread to other parts of my body like my lungs and my bones. I've now been having treatment so palliative chemotherapy now for four years and I'm now on my fourth line chemotherapy agent. It's sort of a bit of a ongoing, ongoing profession or ongoing commitment, this chemotherapy now. So yeah, four years in, still on chemotherapy. And then we started meeting with regards to managing my symptoms, specifically pain. But actually that's branched out into other things and that's been quite useful. And here we are today. When did we first meet? I think it was about two years ago. Yeah, I think so. And it was specifically for the pain in my arm, wasn't it? At that point? I think that was the reason we first started meeting and actually that's been less of a focus more recently and that's actually not really an issue anymore. But it's probably because with your help we've managed it. And again, thanks for agreeing to doing this video as well. As you know, we're sort of hoping to increase the amount of videos we're doing with regard to advanced care planning conversations and the talk CPR video website as well. So I'm really grateful to you for that. So we've known each other for a little while and I've met your partner as well, Tarek. And yeah, so I think I've alluded to the fact that at some point I'd want to discuss maybe about future treatments, things that you would consider potentially appropriate in your care, and things where you may have thoughts or knowledge gaps potentially or whatever in terms of addressing them and sort of. Yeah, I mean, as you can see, sometimes I find this. I find this not an easy one to bring up in consultations because I think everyone sometimes gets a. I can get a bit sort of anxious about talking about it, you know, and it is really sometimes about imagining what you might be like or what you might want when you far less. Well, and I think sometimes as a construct, people don't always like to think about that. So, no, stop me at any point if you want to, or put the brakes on and we can, we can discuss something completely different. Okay, fine. That's absolutely fine. You're happy to go ahead? Yeah, yes, of course. Okay, fine. I mean, I sometimes kind of approach it in a sort of treatment ladder approach, if you're sort of going up the ladder of intensity of treatments, for instance. So for instance, you've been admitted in the past to hospital with things like maybe infections, chest infections, or for chemotherapy or for other potential treatments. And I am assuming as of this moment that is something you would still very much consider. So if you were developer pneumonia, for instance, you'd want to come into hospital for intravenous treatments, antibiotics, etc, etc. Yes, yeah, definitely. I think that would be appropriate and yeah, I would want that. Yeah. And so, you know, and actually some people say to me, no, that's not something that they would necessarily want or whether it want a reconsideration, for instance, and you sort of having ongoing treatment with chemotherapy, etc. And so that is also something that you're discussing with the oncologists and you're more than happy to carry on and continue with those as well. Yeah, at the moment it's providing me. It's a very tolerable regime and it's providing me a pretty good decent quality of life. So we're happy to carry on. Yeah. Okay. And then for treatments like blood transfusions, I'm assuming you're okay with those as well? Yeah, no, happy with those. Should it be required? Should you become anemic or something like that? Yeah, fine. Okay. And then, yeah, I mean, when we're sort of upscaling a little bit in terms of just other potential treatments. So, you know, if, if you were in a situation where you became really, really unwell and you collapsed, for instance, and you know, it was a kind of an emergency situation as such, and your partner contacted the ambulance crew, for instance, what would you want the approach to be as such? So let's say, for instance, that there had been a situation where it's such a severe episode of whatever has happened, for instance, a severe sepsis or something like that, together with all the other problems that are occurring that your heart and breathing stop. Have you, you know, I mean, very difficult for anyone to envisage what that situation might sort of look like on how one would want it handled. But, you know, given how you are at the moment, how. How would you want that situation handled in the future? So I think that what you said was just actually probably quite important is given how I am at the moment. So if that were to happen today, then I think I would probably like to be given the chance and actually have most things done, including cpr. Especially though I was, well, to start with, you know, like, as I am now, I have good quality of life, I'm active and well in myself and there was potentially a reversible cause. So, you know, something that we could treat like a pneumonia, and there was a chance I could get better, then I think that would be what I would like right now. But obviously as things progress and as my disease progresses and as things move on and if I'm not as well, then I think that's definitely something I would need to revisit. If at any point my sort of baseline function or my quality of life wasn't as good as it is now, then that would probably be something I'd have to reconsider. Yeah. Okay. Thanks for being very open about that. And I hope you don't mind my frankness about the whole topic as well, because, I mean, some people can talk about it completely openly and other people find it a bit more difficult. So do time out if you don't want to continue talking. Okay. So that's really useful to know. And I mean, I suppose it's a situation where you're 39 and I know you, you enjoy the outdoors, going out with the dog, etc, etc, I think you, you know, despite the whole situation that you're in, I think you, you'd probably still outrun me. I beg to differ, okay. In terms of, in terms of your abilities and your sort of fitness levels and keeping up to date with things like that. So I suppose for me the sort of thoughts are if, if you, if, if something sudden were to happen with you. So if you came to my outpatient clinic in Belinda and you suddenly collapsed and it was sort of A cardiac arrest. Sit. Then I would get the arrest team and we would basically make sure that you. If there was a shockable rhythm, for instance, we'd. We'd give you the shocks and take you through the sequences of cpr. How successful it would be, I do not know. I cannot tell. But this is something that you would want considered if it were to happen. Yeah, okay, fine. And that's, that's completely fine. Now, this is sort of a second situation, I suppose, which is for some, even, even worse or more difficult to imagine, where it's not about this sudden cardiac arrest where something happens, but it's more about a sort of slower. I mean, some people call it natural dying, which I don't know, you know, what is natural dying. But some people call it sort of, you know, the body gets weaker over time and the cancer grows, unfortunately bigger. And people become more prone to having infections and pneumonias and they may be admitted four or five times a year with the pneumonia, and then the last pneumonia is just too difficult to treat, and then they gradually fade away. And this sometimes happens over sort of four, five, six days or so, where people get more sleepy over time and sometimes need a bit of symptom support. I mean, in natural dying situations, giving CPR has a 0% success rate, you know, so it really is. You could shock that heart till tomorrow and it wouldn't start again. It's not like cardiac arrest. It's very different. And so in those situations, just having your views on how one handles the situation, I suppose I can tell you as a clinician, it wouldn't work and it wouldn't do that to your body. You know, I would see that in a way as an assault, but we would do everything to make sure maybe you're as comfortable as possible. Yeah. But just to explore your views on that, whether where you stand. Yeah, completely agree. I mean, if it gets to a point where my body is just too weak and too frail to carry on, or it is in its natural dying process, whatever we're calling that, then, yeah, 100%. That would seem futile and almost undignified to be doing things like CPR if it's going to be completely fruitless. And actually there is something to be said, I think for a good, good death, you know, where you're at, you're peaceful and your symptoms are managed and it's, it's not sort of tubes and everything coming out of you into your last, last moments. So, yeah, no, I completely agree with you on that as well. So I suppose we're sort of in a, in a stage where we're sort of openly discussing these things and having these conversations about these, these, these topics about these two different scenarios. And I wouldn't be writing a DNA CPR form now. I mean, I suppose I could nearly write one now stating what we've just said, the different scenarios. So. And it would only apply then in a natural dying scenario as such. But I'm probably not going to do that because I think that would confuse matters in some ways. But at some point if you were very poorly or very frail in hospital or in a hospice setting or at home, for instance, I think, I think that might become necessary and I think it's just something that I like to sort of discuss at an earlier time point. I mean, how do you think your partner would take this? I mean, is that something that he's prepared for the discussions that you've held before about talking about the end? I suppose, yeah, I think he would, he would in principle agree with everything we said. Undoubtedly it would be, excuse me, it would be difficult conversation and he would find it, we, he would find it difficult. But I think completely in agreement with me probably and we both feel the same in that if it's, it's hard, it's difficult. Well, we wouldn't want anything to interfere with a natural dying process if it's, if it's that near the end and for it to be as well as peaceful and as possible so that we can spend as much time together as possible. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Okay. That's a useful conversation to have and I suppose if you could discuss it with him, that would, that would be great. Equally, next time I see you maybe face to face in our clinic, you can always bring him along if you want to. We can have a few follow on conversations from that one. Equally, you know, I don't want to over discuss the topic because I think sometimes, you know, healthcare professionals might, like myself, can be a bit sort of over focused on this one big area. And I suppose, you know, I like to talk about all the treatments you'd find acceptable, yes or no, basically and just get, explore your views on it. But maybe I'll note some of those down. But then I don't want to make it the topic of discussion every single time, you know. Yeah. Okay. Any questions or any follow up queries on that one? No, no, except to say that I remember when we first brought this up, I did actually find it quite a relief that you brought it up because you know, when we're having treatment in the cancer world. Everyone's. It's on most people's mind, you know, patients especially. But it's not something that gets brought up a lot necessarily and we're all thinking it, you know, our families are thinking it. So it is, it was quite a relief for me and it was a. Yeah, it was, it was a welcome topic. So thank you for bringing it up. Oh, really? Oh, wow. And that sounds like a little bit. Like it's a bit of an elephant in the room and. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And actually having someone like you to dispel the myths or just clarify a few issues probably is quite helpful for a lot of people, especially because it's not something that we know much about necessarily at this point in our journeys, as it were. Yeah. Thank you, Kat, thanks for this and I'm going to stop the recording now but thank you so much for that. Thank you.

## Utterances
- Speaker A: Afternoon, Kat. Nice to see you. Nice to catch up again. How are you?
- Speaker B: I'm good, thank you. How are you?
- Speaker A: Not too bad, not too. Not too bad. I'm in my office in Willindra Cancer Hospital, as you, as you can see.
- Speaker B: Very nice.
- Speaker A: And good to see you at home as well. The new world of outpatient appointments via by a video link, isn't it?
- Speaker B: Indeed, yes.
- Speaker A: So good, good to catch up with you. And I think last time we saw each other face to face and I think the focus was a bit sort of your sort of pain management. I think today the focus was going to be I was going to talk a little bit about, you know, discussing future treatments as such, if that is okay with you.
- Speaker B: Yeah, sounds good.
- Speaker A: Do you mind just for the purpose of the consultation, do you mind just quickly summarizing where things are at at the moment? Would that be okay?
- Speaker B: Yeah, no, that's fine. So I'm kat. I am 39, I think about that then. I'm 39 and I have stage four breast cancer. I was first diagnosed nine years ago and had a whole lot of treatment then. And then four years ago received my secondary diagnosis where the breast cancer has since spread to other parts of my body like my lungs and my bones. I've now been having treatment so palliative chemotherapy now for four years and I'm now on my fourth line chemotherapy agent. It's sort of a bit of a ongoing, ongoing profession or ongoing commitment, this chemotherapy now. So yeah, four years in, still on chemotherapy. And then we started meeting with regards to managing my symptoms, specifically pain. But actually that's branched out into other things and that's been quite useful. And here we are today.
- Speaker A: When did we first meet? I think it was about two years ago.
- Speaker B: Yeah, I think so. And it was specifically for the pain in my arm, wasn't it? At that point? I think that was the reason we first started meeting and actually that's been less of a focus more recently and that's actually not really an issue anymore. But it's probably because with your help we've managed it.
- Speaker A: And again, thanks for agreeing to doing this video as well. As you know, we're sort of hoping to increase the amount of videos we're doing with regard to advanced care planning conversations and the talk CPR video website as well. So I'm really grateful to you for that. So we've known each other for a little while and I've met your partner as well, Tarek. And yeah, so I think I've alluded to the fact that at some point I'd want to discuss maybe about future treatments, things that you would consider potentially appropriate in your care, and things where you may have thoughts or knowledge gaps potentially or whatever in terms of addressing them and sort of. Yeah, I mean, as you can see, sometimes I find this. I find this not an easy one to bring up in consultations because I think everyone sometimes gets a. I can get a bit sort of anxious about talking about it, you know, and it is really sometimes about imagining what you might be like or what you might want when you far less. Well, and I think sometimes as a construct, people don't always like to think about that. So, no, stop me at any point if you want to, or put the brakes on and we can, we can discuss something completely different. Okay, fine.
- Speaker B: That's absolutely fine.
- Speaker A: You're happy to go ahead?
- Speaker B: Yeah, yes, of course.
- Speaker A: Okay, fine. I mean, I sometimes kind of approach it in a sort of treatment ladder approach, if you're sort of going up the ladder of intensity of treatments, for instance. So for instance, you've been admitted in the past to hospital with things like maybe infections, chest infections, or for chemotherapy or for other potential treatments. And I am assuming as of this moment that is something you would still very much consider. So if you were developer pneumonia, for instance, you'd want to come into hospital for intravenous treatments, antibiotics, etc, etc.
- Speaker B: Yes, yeah, definitely. I think that would be appropriate and yeah, I would want that.
- Speaker A: Yeah. And so, you know, and actually some people say to me, no, that's not something that they would necessarily want or whether it want a reconsideration, for instance, and you sort of having ongoing treatment with chemotherapy, etc. And so that is also something that you're discussing with the oncologists and you're more than happy to carry on and continue with those as well.
- Speaker B: Yeah, at the moment it's providing me. It's a very tolerable regime and it's providing me a pretty good decent quality of life. So we're happy to carry on.
- Speaker A: Yeah. Okay. And then for treatments like blood transfusions, I'm assuming you're okay with those as well?
- Speaker B: Yeah, no, happy with those. Should it be required?
- Speaker A: Should you become anemic or something like that? Yeah, fine. Okay. And then, yeah, I mean, when we're sort of upscaling a little bit in terms of just other potential treatments. So, you know, if, if you were in a situation where you became really, really unwell and you collapsed, for instance, and you know, it was a kind of an emergency situation as such, and your partner contacted the ambulance crew, for instance, what would you want the approach to be as such? So let's say, for instance, that there had been a situation where it's such a severe episode of whatever has happened, for instance, a severe sepsis or something like that, together with all the other problems that are occurring that your heart and breathing stop. Have you, you know, I mean, very difficult for anyone to envisage what that situation might sort of look like on how one would want it handled. But, you know, given how you are at the moment, how. How would you want that situation handled in the future?
- Speaker B: So I think that what you said was just actually probably quite important is given how I am at the moment. So if that were to happen today, then I think I would probably like to be given the chance and actually have most things done, including cpr. Especially though I was, well, to start with, you know, like, as I am now, I have good quality of life, I'm active and well in myself and there was potentially a reversible cause. So, you know, something that we could treat like a pneumonia, and there was a chance I could get better, then I think that would be what I would like right now. But obviously as things progress and as my disease progresses and as things move on and if I'm not as well, then I think that's definitely something I would need to revisit. If at any point my sort of baseline function or my quality of life wasn't as good as it is now, then that would probably be something I'd have to reconsider.
- Speaker A: Yeah. Okay. Thanks for being very open about that. And I hope you don't mind my frankness about the whole topic as well, because, I mean, some people can talk about it completely openly and other people find it a bit more difficult. So do time out if you don't want to continue talking. Okay. So that's really useful to know. And I mean, I suppose it's a situation where you're 39 and I know you, you enjoy the outdoors, going out with the dog, etc, etc, I think you, you know, despite the whole situation that you're in, I think you, you'd probably still outrun me.
- Speaker B: I beg to differ, okay.
- Speaker A: In terms of, in terms of your abilities and your sort of fitness levels and keeping up to date with things like that. So I suppose for me the sort of thoughts are if, if you, if, if something sudden were to happen with you. So if you came to my outpatient clinic in Belinda and you suddenly collapsed and it was sort of A cardiac arrest. Sit. Then I would get the arrest team and we would basically make sure that you. If there was a shockable rhythm, for instance, we'd. We'd give you the shocks and take you through the sequences of cpr. How successful it would be, I do not know. I cannot tell. But this is something that you would want considered if it were to happen. Yeah, okay, fine. And that's, that's completely fine. Now, this is sort of a second situation, I suppose, which is for some, even, even worse or more difficult to imagine, where it's not about this sudden cardiac arrest where something happens, but it's more about a sort of slower. I mean, some people call it natural dying, which I don't know, you know, what is natural dying. But some people call it sort of, you know, the body gets weaker over time and the cancer grows, unfortunately bigger. And people become more prone to having infections and pneumonias and they may be admitted four or five times a year with the pneumonia, and then the last pneumonia is just too difficult to treat, and then they gradually fade away. And this sometimes happens over sort of four, five, six days or so, where people get more sleepy over time and sometimes need a bit of symptom support. I mean, in natural dying situations, giving CPR has a 0% success rate, you know, so it really is. You could shock that heart till tomorrow and it wouldn't start again. It's not like cardiac arrest. It's very different. And so in those situations, just having your views on how one handles the situation, I suppose I can tell you as a clinician, it wouldn't work and it wouldn't do that to your body. You know, I would see that in a way as an assault, but we would do everything to make sure maybe you're as comfortable as possible.
- Speaker B: Yeah.
- Speaker A: But just to explore your views on that, whether where you stand.
- Speaker B: Yeah, completely agree. I mean, if it gets to a point where my body is just too weak and too frail to carry on, or it is in its natural dying process, whatever we're calling that, then, yeah, 100%. That would seem futile and almost undignified to be doing things like CPR if it's going to be completely fruitless. And actually there is something to be said, I think for a good, good death, you know, where you're at, you're peaceful and your symptoms are managed and it's, it's not sort of tubes and everything coming out of you into your last, last moments. So, yeah, no, I completely agree with you on that as well.
- Speaker A: So I suppose we're sort of in a, in a stage where we're sort of openly discussing these things and having these conversations about these, these, these topics about these two different scenarios. And I wouldn't be writing a DNA CPR form now. I mean, I suppose I could nearly write one now stating what we've just said, the different scenarios. So. And it would only apply then in a natural dying scenario as such. But I'm probably not going to do that because I think that would confuse matters in some ways. But at some point if you were very poorly or very frail in hospital or in a hospice setting or at home, for instance, I think, I think that might become necessary and I think it's just something that I like to sort of discuss at an earlier time point. I mean, how do you think your partner would take this? I mean, is that something that he's prepared for the discussions that you've held before about talking about the end?
- Speaker B: I suppose, yeah, I think he would, he would in principle agree with everything we said. Undoubtedly it would be, excuse me, it would be difficult conversation and he would find it, we, he would find it difficult. But I think completely in agreement with me probably and we both feel the same in that if it's, it's hard, it's difficult. Well, we wouldn't want anything to interfere with a natural dying process if it's, if it's that near the end and for it to be as well as peaceful and as possible so that we can spend as much time together as possible.
- Speaker A: Yeah. Yeah, okay. Okay. That's a useful conversation to have and I suppose if you could discuss it with him, that would, that would be great. Equally, next time I see you maybe face to face in our clinic, you can always bring him along if you want to. We can have a few follow on conversations from that one. Equally, you know, I don't want to over discuss the topic because I think sometimes, you know, healthcare professionals might, like myself, can be a bit sort of over focused on this one big area. And I suppose, you know, I like to talk about all the treatments you'd find acceptable, yes or no, basically and just get, explore your views on it. But maybe I'll note some of those down. But then I don't want to make it the topic of discussion every single time, you know. Yeah. Okay. Any questions or any follow up queries on that one?
- Speaker B: No, no, except to say that I remember when we first brought this up, I did actually find it quite a relief that you brought it up because you know, when we're having treatment in the cancer world. Everyone's. It's on most people's mind, you know, patients especially. But it's not something that gets brought up a lot necessarily and we're all thinking it, you know, our families are thinking it. So it is, it was quite a relief for me and it was a. Yeah, it was, it was a welcome topic. So thank you for bringing it up.
- Speaker A: Oh, really? Oh, wow. And that sounds like a little bit. Like it's a bit of an elephant in the room and.
- Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And actually having someone like you to dispel the myths or just clarify a few issues probably is quite helpful for a lot of people, especially because it's not something that we know much about necessarily at this point in our journeys, as it were.
- Speaker A: Yeah. Thank you, Kat, thanks for this and I'm going to stop the recording now but thank you so much for that.
- Speaker B: Thank you.